ECE 5. Introduction to Electrical and Computer Engineering (4)

An introduction to electrical and computer engineering. Topics include circuit theory, assembly, and testing, embedded systems programming and debugging, transducer mechanisms and interfacing transducers, signals and systems theory, digital signal processing, and modular design techniques. Prerequisites: priority enrollment given to engineering majors EC04, EC26, EC27, EC28, and EC37.


ECE 15. Engineering Computation (4)

Students learn the C programming language with an emphasis on high-performance numerical computation. The commonality across programming languages of control structures, data structures, and I/O is also covered. Techniques for using Matlab to graph the results of C computations are developed. Prerequisites: a familiarity with basic mathematics such as trigonometry functions and graphing is expected but this course assumes no prior programming knowledge.


ECE 16. Rapid Hardware and Software Design for Interfacing with the World (4)

Students are introduced to embedded systems concepts with structured development of a computer controller based on electromyogram (EMG) signals through four lab assignments through the quarter. Key concepts include sampling, signal processing, communication, and real-time control. Students will apply their prior knowledge in C (from ECE15) to program microcontrollers and will engage in data analysis using the Python programming language. Prerequisites: MAE 8 or CSE 8B or CSE 11 or ECE 15.


ECE 17. Object-Oriented Programming: Design and Development with C++ (4)

This course combines the fundamentals of object-oriented design in C++, with the programming, debugging, and testing practices used by modern software developers. Emphasizes the use of object-oriented techniques to model and reason about system design, and using modern C++ idioms, design patterns, and the Standard Template Library (STL) to develop solutions to systems engineering challenges that are more reliable, robust, scalable, and secure. Prerequisites: CSE 8B or CSE 11 or ECE 15.


ECE 25. Introduction to Digital Design (4)

This course emphasizes digital electronics. Principles introduced in lectures are used in laboratory assignments, which also serve to introduce experimental and design methods. Topics include Boolean algebra, combination and sequential logic, gates and their implementation in digital circuits. (Course materials and/or program fees may apply.) Prerequisites: none.


ECE 30. Introduction to Computer Engineering (4)

The fundamentals of both the hardware and software in a computer system. Topics include representation of information, computer organization and design, assembly and microprogramming, current technology in logic design. Prerequisites: ECE 15 and 25 with grades of C– or better.


ECE 35. Introduction to Analog Design (4)

Fundamental circuit theory concepts, Kirchhoff's voltage and current laws, Thevenin's and Norton's theorems, loop and node analysis, time-varying signals, transient first order circuits, steady-state sinusoidal response. MATH 20C and PHYS 2B must be taken concurrently. Program or materials fees may apply. Prerequisites: MATH 18, 20A–B, and PHYS 2A.


ECE 45. Circuits and Systems (4)

Steady-state circuit analysis, first and second order systems, Fourier Series and Transforms, time domain analysis, convolution, transient response, Laplace Transform, and filter design. Prerequisites: ECE 35.


ECE 65. Components and Circuits Laboratory (4)

Introduction to linear and nonlinear components and circuits. Topics will include two terminal devices, bipolar and field-effect transistors, and large and small signal analysis of diode and transistor circuits. (Program or materials fees may apply.) Prerequisites: ECE 35.


ECE 85. iTunes 101: A Survey of Information Technology (4)

Topics include how devices such as iPods and iPhones generate, transmit, receive and process information (music, images, video, etc.), the relationship between technology and issues such as privacy and "net neutrality," and current topics related to information technology. Prerequisites: none.


ECE 87. Freshman Seminar (1)

The Freshman Seminar program is designed to provide new students with the opportunity to explore an intellectual topic with a faculty member in a small seminar setting. Freshman Seminars are offered in all campus departments and undergraduate colleges, and topics vary from quarter to quarter. Enrollment is limited to fifteen to twenty students, with preference given to entering freshmen. Prerequisites: none.


ECE 90. Undergraduate Seminar (1)

This seminar class will provide a broad review of current research topics in both electrical engineering and computer engineering. Typical subject areas are signal processing, VLSI design, electronic materials and devices, radio astronomy, communications, and optical computing. Prerequisites: none.


ECE 100. Linear Electronic Systems (4)

Linear active circuit and system design. Topics include frequency response; use of Laplace transforms; design and stability of filters using operational amplifiers. Integrated lab and lecture involves analysis, design, simulation, and testing of circuits and systems. Program or materials fees may apply. Prerequisites: ECE 45 and ECE 65. ECE 65 may be taken concurrently.


ECE 101. Linear Systems Fundamentals (4)

Complex variables. Singularities and residues. Signal and system analysis in continuous and discrete time. Fourier series and transforms. Laplace and z-transforms. Linear Time Invariant Systems. Impulse response, frequency response, and transfer functions. Poles and zeros. Stability. Convolution. Sampling. Aliasing. Prerequisites: ECE 45 with grade of C– or better.


ECE 102. Introduction to Active Circuit Design (4)

Nonlinear active circuits design. Nonlinear device models for diodes, bipolar and field-effect transistors. Linearization of device models and small-signal equivalent circuits. Circuit designs will be simulated by computer and tested in the laboratory. Prerequisites: ECE 65 and ECE 100. ECE 100 can be taken concurrently. 


ECE 103. Fundamentals of Devices and Materials (4)

Introduction to semiconductor materials and devices. Semiconductor crystal structure, energy bands, doping, carrier statistics, drift and diffusion, p-n junctions, metal-semiconductor junctions. Bipolar junction transistors: current flow, amplification, switching, nonideal behavior. Metal-oxide-semiconductor structures, MOSFETs, device scaling. Prerequisites: ECE 65 and PHYS 2D or PHYS 4D and 4E.


ECE 107. Electromagnetism (4)

Electrostatics and magnetostatics; electrodynamics; Maxwell's equations; plane waves; skin effect. Electromagnetics of transmission lines: reflection and transmission at discontinuities, Smith chart, pulse propagation, dispersion. Rectangular waveguides. Dielectric and magnetic properties of materials. Electromagnetics of circuits. Prerequisites: PHYS 2A–C or 4A–C and ECE 45.


ECE 108. Digital Circuits (4)

A transistor-level view of digital integrated circuits. CMOS combinational logic, ratioed logic, noise margins, rise and fall delays, power dissipation, transmission gates. Short channel MOS model, effects on scaling. Sequential circuits, memory and array logic circuits. Three hours of lecture, one hour of discussion, three hours of laboratory. Prerequisites: ECE 25 or CSE 140, 45, and 65 and ECE 30 or CSE 30.


ECE 109. Engineering Probability and Statistics (4)

Axioms of probability, conditional probability, theorem of total probability, random variables, densities, expected values, characteristic functions, transformation of random variables, central limit theorem. Random number generation, engineering reliability, elements of estimation, random sampling, sampling distributions, tests for hypothesis. Students who completed MAE 108, MATH 180A–B, MATH 183, MATH 186, ECON 120A, or ECON 120AH will not receive credit for ECE 109. Prerequisites: MATH 20A-B, MATH 20D, MATH 20C or MATH 31BH, and MATH 31AH or MATH 18. Students who completed MAE 108, MATH 180A-B, MATH 183, MATH 186, or ECON 120A will not receive credit for ECE 109.


ECE 111. Advanced Digital Design Project (4)

Advanced topics in digital circuits and systems. Use of computers and design automation tools. Hazard elimination, synchronous/asynchronous FSM synthesis, synchronization and arbitration, pipelining and timing issues. Problem sets and design exercises. A large-scale design project. Simulation and/or rapid prototyping. Prerequisites: ECE 25 or CSE 140.


ECE 115. Fast Prototyping (4)

Lab-based course. Students will learn how to prototype a mechatronic solution. Topics include cheap/accessible materials and parts; suppliers; fast prototyping techniques; useful electronic sketches and system integration shortcuts. Students will learn to materialize their electromechanical ideas and make design decisions to minimize cost, improve functionality/robustness. Labs will culminate toward a fully functional robot prototype for demonstration. Prerequisites: ECE 16 or consent of instructor.


ECE 118. Computer Interfacing (4)

Interfacing computers and embedded controllers to the real world: busses, interrupts, DMA, memory mapping, concurrency, digital I/O, standards for serial and parallel communications, A/D, D/A, sensors, signal conditioning, video, and closed loop control. Students design and construct an interfacing project. (Course materials and/or program fees may apply.) Prerequisites: ECE 30 or CSE 30 and ECE 35, 45, 65.


ECE 120. Solar System Physics (4)

General introduction to planetary bodies, the overall structure of the solar system, and space plasma physics. Course emphasis will be on the solar atmosphere, how the solar wind is produced, and its interaction with both magnetized and unmagnetized planets (and comets). Prerequisites: PHYS 2A–C or 4A–D, MATH 20A–B, 20C with grades of C– or better.


ECE 121A. Power Systems Analysis and Fundamentals (4)

This course introduces concepts of large-scale power system analysis: electric power generation, distribution, steady-state analysis and economic operation. It provides the fundamentals for advanced courses and engineering practice on electric power systems, smart grid, and electricity economics. The course requires implementing some of the computational techniques in simulation software. Prerequisites: ECE 35.


ECE 121B. Energy Conversion (4)

Principles of electro-mechanical energy conversion, balanced three-phase systems, fundamental concepts of magnetic circuits, single-phase transformers, and the steady-state performance of DC and induction machines. Students may not receive credit for both ECE 121B and ECE 121. Prerequisites: ECE 121A.


ECE 123. Antenna Systems Engineering (4)

The electromagnetic and systems engineering of radio antennas for terrestrial wireless and satellite communications. Antenna impedance, beam pattern, gain, and polarization. Dipoles, monopoles, paraboloids, phased arrays. Power and noise budgets for communication links. Atmospheric propagation and multipath. Prerequisites: ECE 107 with a grade of C– or better.


ECE 124. Motor Drives (4)

Topics include the operation of DC motor and induction machine drives in steady state and speed control of DC and induction motor drives in an energy efficient manner using power electronics. Control techniques such as vector control and direct torque control (DTC) of induction machines. Different control methods for direct current motors using different types of power converters, such as DC-DC and AC-DC converters. Design torque, speed, and position controller of DC motor drive. Prerequisites: ECE 121B and ECE 125A.


ECE 125A. Introduction to Power Electronics I (4)

Power generation, system, and electronics. Topics include power semiconductor devices and characteristics, single-phase and three-phase half and full controlled AC-to-DC rectifiers, nonisolated/isolated DC-DC converters, power loss calculation, and thermal considerations, Snubber circuits. Prerequisites: ECE 121A.


ECE 125B. Introduction to Power Electronics II (4)

Design and control of DC-DC converters, PWM rectifiers, single-phase and three-phase inverters, power management, and power electronics applications in renewable energy systems, motion control, and lighting. Prerequisites: ECE 125A.


ECE 128A. Real World Power Grid Operation (4)

Provides practical insights into the operation of the power grid. Covers the same subjects that actual power system operators' certification course covers. It systematically describes the vital grid operators' functions and the processes required to operate the system. Uses actual case histories, and real examples of best in-class approaches from across the nation and the globe. Presents the problems encountered by operators and the enabling solutions to remedy them. Prerequisites: upper-division standing.


ECE 128B. Power Grid Modernization (4)

In-depth coverage of the future power grids. Covers the practical aspects of the technologies, their design and system implementation. Topics include the changing nature of the grid with renewable resources, smart meters, synchrophasors (PMU), microgrids, distributed energy resources, and the associated information and communications infrastructures. Presents actual examples and best practices. Students will be provided with various tools. Prerequisites: ECE 35 and ECE 128A.


ECE 128C. Power Grid Resiliency to Adverse Effects (4)

This course offers unique insight and practical answers through examples, of how power systems can be affected by weather and what/how countermeasures can be applied to mitigate them to make the system more resilient. Detailed explanations of the impacts of extreme weather and applicable industry standards and initiatives. Proven practices for successful restoration of the power grid, increased system resiliency, and ride-through after extreme weather providing real examples from around the globe. Prerequisites: ECE 128B.


ECE 134. Electronic Materials Science of Integrated Circuits (4)

Electronic materials science with emphasis on topics pertinent to microelectronics and VLSI technology. Concept of the course is to use components in integrated circuits to discuss structure, thermodynamics, reaction kinetics, and electrical properties of materials. Prerequisites: PHYS 2C–D with grades of C– or better.


ECE 135A. Semiconductor Physics (4)

Crystal structure and quantum theory of solids; electronic band structure; review of carrier statistics, drift and diffusion, p-n junctions; nonequilibrium carriers, imrefs, traps, recombination, etc; metal-semiconductor junctions and heterojunctions. Prerequisites: ECE 103 with a grade of C– or better.


ECE 135B. Electronic Devices (4)

Structure and operation of bipolar junction transistors, junction field-effect transistors, metal-oxide-semiconductor diodes and transistors. Analysis of dc and ac characteristics. Charge control model of dynamic behavior. Prerequisites: ECE 135A with a grade of C– or better.


ECE 136L. Microelectronics Laboratory (4)

Laboratory fabrication of diodes and field-effect transistors covering photolithography, oxidation, diffusion, thin film deposition, etching and evaluation of devices. (Course materials and/or program fees may apply.) Prerequisites: ECE 135B.


ECE 138L. Microstructuring Processing Technology Laboratory (4)

A laboratory course covering the concept and practice of microstructuring science and technology in fabricating devices relevant to sensors, lab-chips and related devices. (Course materials and/or program fees may apply.) Prerequisites: upper-division standing for science and engineering students.


ECE 140A. The Art of Product Engineering I (4)

Building on a solid foundation of electrical and computer engineer skills, this course strives to broaden student skills in software, full-stack engineering, and concrete understanding of methods related to the realistic development of a commercial product. Students will research, design, and develop an IOT device to serve an emerging market. Prerequisites: CSE 8B or CSE 11 or ECE 15.


ECE 140B. The Art of Product Engineering II (4)

Building on a solid foundation of electrical and computer engineer skills, this course strives to broaden student skills in software, full-stack engineering, and concrete understanding of methods related to the realistic development of a commercial product. Students will research, design, and develop an IOT device to serve an emerging market. Prerequisites: ECE 140A.


ECE 141A. Software Foundations I (4)

Software analysis, design, and development. Data structures, algorithms, and design and development idioms in C++. Students will gain broad experience using object-oriented methods and design patterns. Through increasingly difficult challenges, students will gain valuable real-world experience building, testing, and debugging software, and develop a robust mental model of modern software design and architecture. Prerequisites: CSE 30 or ECE 30.


ECE 141B. Software Foundations II (4)

ECE 141B builds upon the solid C++ foundation of ECE 141A. Students will model and build a working database management solution in C++. Topics include STL, design patterns, parsing, searching and sorting, algorithmic thinking, and design partitioning. The course will continue to explore best practices in software development, debugging, and testing. Prerequisites: ECE 141A.


ECE 143. Programming for Data Analysis (4)

This course covers the fundamentals of using the Python language effectively for data analysis. Students learn the underlying mechanics and implementation specifics of Python and how to effectively utilize the many built-in data structures and algorithms. The course introduces key modules for data analysis such as Numpy, Pandas, and Matplotlib. Participants learn to leverage and navigate the vast Python ecosystem to find codes and communities of individual interest. Prerequisites: ECE 16.


ECE 144. LabVIEW Programming: Design and Applications (4)

Develop, debug, and test LabVIEW VIs, solve problems using LabVIEW, use data acquisition, and perform signal processing and instrument control in LabVIEW applications. Groups of students will build an elevator system from laser-cut and 3-D printed parts; integrate sensors, motors, and servos; and program using state-machine architecture in LabVIEW. Students will have the opportunity to take the National Instruments Certified LabVIEW Associate Developer (CLAD) exam at the end of the quarter. Program or materials fees may apply. Prerequisites: CSE 11 or CSE 8B or ECE 15.


ECE 145. Acoustics Laboratory (4-4-4)

Automated laboratory based on H-P GPIB controlled instruments. Software controlled data collection and analysis. Vibrations and waves in strings and bars of electromechanical systems and transducers. Transmissions, reflection, and scattering of sound waves in air and water. Aural and visual detection. Prerequisites: ECE 107 with a grade of C– or better or consent of instructor.


ECE 148. Introduction to Autonomous Vehicles (4)

Fundamentals of autonomous vehicles. Working in small teams, students will develop 1:8 scale autonomous cars that must perform on a simulated city track. Topics include robotics system integration, computer vision, algorithms for navigation, on-vehicle vs. off-vehicle computation, computer learning systems such as neural networks, locomotion systems, vehicle steering, dead reckoning, odometry, sensor fusion, GPS autopilot limitations, wiring, and power distribution and management. Cross-listed with MAE 148. Students may not receive credit for ECE 148 and MAE 148. Program or materials fees may apply. Prerequisites: ECE 15 or ECE 35 or MAE 2 or MAE 3, and consent of instructor.


ECE 150. Entrepreneurship for Engineers (4)

A foundation course teaching the basics of starting and running a successful new business. Students learn how to think like entrepreneurs, pivot their ideas to match customer needs, and assess financial, market, and timeline feasibility. The end goal is an investor pitch and a business plan. Provides experiential education, encouragement, and coaching (“E3CE”) that prepares students for successful careers at startup as well as large companies. Counts toward one professional elective only. Prerequisites: students must apply to enroll in order to gauge their past experience with and interest in entrepreneurship. Consent of instructor is required.


ECE 153. Probability and Random Processes for Engineers (4)

Random processes. Stationary processes: correlation, power spectral density. Gaussian processes and linear transformation of Gaussian processes. Point processes. Random noise in linear systems. Prerequisites: ECE 109 with a grade of C– or better.


ECE 154A. Communications Systems I (4)

Study of analog modulation systems including AM, SSB, DSB, VSB, FM, and PM. Performance analysis of both coherent and noncoherent receivers, including threshold effects in FM. Prerequisites: ECE 101 and 153 with a grade of C– or better.


ECE 155. Digital Communications Theory (4)

Design and performance analysis of digital modulation techniques, including probability of error results for PSK, DPSK, and FSK. Introduction to effects of intersymbol interference and fading. Detection and estimation theory, including optimal receiver design and maximum-likelihood parameter estimation. Renumbered from ECE 154B. Students may not receive credit for ECE 155 and ECE 154B. Prerequisites: ECE 101 or BENG 122A, ECE 109 or ECON 120A or MAE 108 or MATH 180A or MATH 180B or MATH 183 or MATH 186, and ECE 153.


ECE 156. Sensor Networks (4)

Characteristics of chemical, biological, seismic, and other physical sensors; signal processing techniques supporting distributed detection of salient events; wireless communication and networking protocols supporting formation of robust sensor fabrics; current experience with low power, low cost sensor deployments. Undergraduate students must take a final exam; graduate students must write a term paper or complete a final project. Cross-listed with MAE 149 and SIO 238. Prerequisites: upper-division standing and consent of instructor, or graduate student in science and engineering.


ECE 157A. Communications Systems Laboratory I (4)

Experiments in the modulation and demodulation of baseband and passband signals. Statistical characterization of signals and impairments. (Course materials and/or program fees may apply.) Prerequisites: ECE 109 or ECON 120A or MAE 108 or MATH 180A or MATH 180B or MATH 183 or MATH 186 and ECE 161A.


ECE 157B. Communications Systems Laboratory II (4)

Advanced projects in communication systems. Students will plan and implement design projects in the laboratory, updating progress weekly and making plan/design adjustments based upon feedback. (Course materials and/or program fees may apply.) Prerequisites: ECE 154A with a grade of C+ or better.


ECE 158A. Data Networks I (4)

Layered network architectures, data link control protocols and multiple-access systems, performance analysis. Flow control; prevention of deadlock and throughput degradation. Routing, centralized and decentralized schemes, static dynamic algorithms. Shortest path and minimum average delay algorithms. Comparisons. Prerequisites: ECE 109 with a grade of C– or better.


ECE 158B. Data Networks II (4)

Layered network architectures, data link control protocols and multiple-access systems, performance analysis. Flow control; prevention of deadlock and throughput degradation. Routing, centralized and decentralized schemes, static dynamic algorithms. Shortest path and minimum average delay algorithms. Comparisons. Prerequisites: ECE 158A with a grade of C– or better.


ECE 159. Introduction to Data Processing and Information Theory (4)

Introduction to information theory and coding, including entropy, average mutual information, channel capacity, block codes, and convolutional codes. Renumbered from ECE 154C. Students may not receive credit for ECE 159 and ECE 154C. Prerequisites: ECE 153.


ECE 161A. Introduction to Digital Signal Processing (4)

Review of discrete-time systems and signals, Discrete-Time Fourier Transform and its properties, the Fast Fourier Transform, design of Finite Impulse Response (FIR) and Infinite Impulse Response (IIR) filters, implementation of digital filters. Prerequisites: ECE 101.


ECE 161B. Digital Signal Processing I (4)

Sampling and quantization of baseband signals; A/D and D/A conversion, quantization noise, oversampling and noise shaping. Sampling of bandpass signals, undersampling downconversion, and Hilbert transforms. Coefficient quantization, roundoff noise, limit cycles and overflow oscillations. Insensitive filter structures, lattice and wave digital filters. Systems will be designed and tested with Matlab, implemented with DSP processors and tested in the laboratory. Prerequisites: ECE 161A with a grade of C– or better.


ECE 161C. Applications of Digital Signal Processing (4)

This course discusses several applications of DSP. Topics covered will include speech analysis and coding; image and video compression and processing. A class project is required, algorithms simulated by Matlab. Prerequisites: ECE 161A.


ECE 163. Electronic Circuits and Systems (4)

Analysis and design of analog circuits and systems. Feedback systems with applications to operational amplifier circuits. Stability, sensitivity, bandwidth, compensation. Design of active filters. Switched capacitor circuits. Phase-locked loops. Analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog conversion. (Course materials and/or program fees may apply.) Prerequisites: ECE 101 and 102 with grades of C– or better.


ECE 164. Analog Integrated Circuit Design (4)

Design of linear and nonlinear analog integrated circuits including operational amplifiers, voltage regulators, drivers, power stages, oscillators, and multipliers. Use of feedback and evaluation of noise performance. Parasitic effects of integrated circuit technology. Laboratory simulation and testing of circuits. Prerequisites: ECE 102 with a grade of C– or better. ECE 163 recommended.


ECE 165. Digital Integrated Circuit Design (4)

VLSI digital systems. Circuit characterization, performance estimation, and optimization. Circuits for alternative logic styles and clocking schemes. Subsystems include ALUs, memory, processor arrays, and PLAs. Techniques for gate arrays, standard cell, and custom design. Design and simulation using CAD tools. Prerequisites: ECE 102.


ECE 166. Microwave Systems and Circuits (4)

Waves, distributed circuits, and scattering matrix methods. Passive microwave elements. Impedance matching. Detection and frequency conversion using microwave diodes. Design of transistor amplifiers including noise performance. Circuits designs will be simulated by computer and tested in the laboratory. (Course materials and/or program fees may apply.) Prerequisites: ECE 102 and 107 with grades of C– or better.


ECE 171A. Linear Control System Theory (4)

Stability of continuous- and discrete-time single-input/single-output linear time-invariant control systems emphasizing frequency domain methods. Transient and steady-state behavior. Stability analysis by root locus, Bode, Nyquist, and Nichols plots. Compensator design. Prerequisites: ECE 45 or MAE 140.


ECE 171B. Linear Control System Theory (4)

Time-domain, state-variable formulation of the control problem for both discrete-time and continuous-time linear systems. State-space realizations from transfer function system description. Internal and input-output stability, controllability/observability, minimal realizations, and pole-placement by full-state feedback. Prerequisites: ECE 171A with a grade of C– or better.


ECE 172A. Introduction to Intelligent Systems: Robotics and Machine Intelligence (4)

This course will introduce basic concepts in machine perception. Topics covered will include edge detection, segmentation, texture analysis, image registration, and compression. Prerequisites: ECE 101 with a grade of C– or better. ECE 109 recommended.


ECE 174. Introduction to Linear and Nonlinear Optimization with Applications (4)

The linear least squares problem, including constrained and unconstrained quadratic optimization and the relationship to the geometry of linear transformations. Introduction to nonlinear optimization. Applications to signal processing, system identification, robotics, and circuit design. Recommended preparation: ECE 100. Prerequisites: MATH 20F or MATH 18, ECE 15, and ECE 109 or consent of instructor.


ECE 175A. Elements of Machine Intelligence: Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning (4)

Introduction to pattern recognition and machine learning. Decision functions. Statistical pattern classifiers. Generative vs. discriminant methods for pattern classification. Feature selection. Regression. Unsupervised learning. Clustering. Applications of machine learning. Prerequisites: ECE 109 and ECE 174.


ECE 175B. Elements of Machine Intelligence: Probabilistic Reasoning and Graphical Models (4)

Bayes' rule as a probabilistic reasoning engine; graphical models as knowledge encoders; conditional independence and D-Separation; Markov random fields; inference in graphical models; sampling methods and Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC); sequential data and the Viterbi and BCJR algorithms; The Baum-Welsh algorithm for Markov Chain parameter estimation. Prerequisites: ECE 175A.


ECE 180. Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering (4)

Topics of special interest in electrical and computer engineering. Subject matter will not be repeated so it may be taken for credit more than once. Prerequisites: consent of instructor; department stamp.


ECE 181. Physical Optics and Fourier Optics (4)

Ray optics, wave optics, beam optics, Fourier optics, and electromagnetic optics. Ray transfer matrix, matrices of cascaded optics, numerical apertures of step and graded index fibers. Fresnel and Fraunhofer diffractions, interference of waves. Gaussian and Bessel beams, the ABCD law for transmissions through arbitrary optical systems. Spatial frequency, impulse response and transfer function of optical systems, Fourier transform and imaging properties of lenses, holography. Wave propagation in various (inhomogeneous, dispersive, anisotropic or nonlinear) media. (Course materials and/or program fees may apply.) Prerequisites: ECE 103 and 107 with grades of C– or better.


ECE 182. Electromagnetic Optics, Guided-Wave, and Fiber Optics (4)

Polarization optics: crystal optics, birefringence. Guided-wave optics: modes, losses, dispersion, coupling, switching. Fiber optics: step and graded index, single and multimode operation, attenuation, dispersion, fiber optic communications. Resonator optics. (Course materials and/or program fees may apply.) Prerequisites: ECE 103 and 107 with grades of C– or better.


ECE 183. Optical Electronics (4)

Quantum electronics, interaction of light and matter in atomic systems, semiconductors. Laser amplifiers and laser systems. Photodetection. Electro-optics and acousto-optics, photonic switching. Fiber optic communication systems. Labs: semiconductor lasers, semiconductor photodetectors. (Course materials and/or program fees may apply.) Prerequisites: ECE 103 and 107 with grades of C– or better.


ECE 184. Optical Information Processing and Holography (4)

(Conjoined with ECE 241AL) Labs: optical holography, photorefractive effect, spatial filtering, computer generated holography. Students enrolled in ECE 184 will receive four units of credit; students enrolled in ECE 241AL will receive two units of credit. (Course materials and/or program fees may apply.) Prerequisites: ECE 182 with a grade of C– or better.


ECE 185. Lasers and Modulators (4)

(Conjoined with ECE 241BL) Labs: CO2 laser, HeNe laser, electro-optic modulation, acousto-optic modulation, spatial light modulators. Students enrolled in ECE 185 will receive four units of credit; students enrolled in ECE 241BL will receive two units of credit. (Course materials and/or program fees may apply.) Prerequisites: ECE 183 with a grade of C– or better.


ECE 187. Introduction to Biomedical Imaging and Sensing (4)

Image processing fundamentals: imaging theory, image processing, pattern recognition; digital radiography, computerized tomography, nuclear medicine imaging, nuclear magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasound imaging, microscopy imaging. Prerequisites: MATH 20A-B-F, 20C or 21C, 20D or 21D, PHYS 2A–D, ECE 101 (may be taken concurrently) with grades of C– or better.


ECE 188. Topics in Electrical and Computer Engineering with Laboratory (4)

Topics of special interest in electrical and computer engineering with laboratory. Subject matter will not be repeated so it may be taken for credit up to three times. Prerequisites: upper-division standing.


ECE 189. Technical Public Speaking (2)

Basics of technical public speaking, including speech organization, body language (eye contact, hand gestures, etc.), volume and rate, and design of technical slides. Students will practice technical public speaking, including speeches with PowerPoint slides and speaker introductions, and presenting impromptu speeches. Students may not receive credit for both ECE 189 and ENG 100E. Prerequisites: upper-division standing.


ECE 190. Engineering Design (4)

Students complete a project comprising at least 50 percent or more engineering design to satisfy the following features: student creativity, open-ended formulation of a problem statement/specifications, consideration of alternative solutions/realistic constraints. Written final report required. Prerequisites: students enrolling in this course must have completed all of the breadth courses and one depth course. The department stamp is required to enroll in ECE 190. (Specifications and enrollment forms are available in the undergraduate office.)


ECE 191. Engineering Group Design Project (4)

Groups of students work to design, build, demonstrate, and document an engineering project. All students give weekly progress reports of their tasks and contribute a section to the final project report. Prerequisites: completion of all of the breadth courses and one depth course.


ECE 193H. Honors Project (4–8)

An advanced reading or research project performed under the direction of an ECE faculty member. Must contain enough design to satisfy the ECE program's four-unit design requirement. Must be taken for a letter grade. May extend over two quarters with a grade assigned at completion for both quarters. Prerequisites: admission to the ECE departmental honors program.


ECE 194. Viacar Design Project (4)

Students design, build, and race an autonomous car using principles in electrical engineering and computer science: circuit design, control theory, digital signal processing, embedded systems, microcontrollers, electromagnetism, and programming. Prerequisites: none.


ECE 195. Teaching (2 or 4)

Teaching and tutorial activities associated with courses and seminars. Not more than four units of ECE 195 may be used for satisfying graduation requirements. (P/NP grades only.) Prerequisites: consent of the department chair.


ECE 196. Engineering Hands-on Group Project (4)

Groups of students work to build and demonstrate at least three engineering projects at the beginning, intermediate, and advanced levels. The final project consists of either a new project designed by the student team or extension of an existing project. The student teams also prepare a manual as part of their documentation of the final project. May be taken for credit two times. Prerequisites: upper-division standing.


ECE 197. ECE Internship (2 or 4)

An enrichment program that provides work experience with public/private section employers. Subject to the availability of positions, students will work in a local company under the supervision of a faculty member and site supervisor. (P/NP grades only.) Prerequisites: minimum UC San Diego 2.5 GPA. Consent of instructor and department stamp.


ECE 198. Directed Group Study (2 or 4)

Topics in electrical and computer engineering whose study involves reading and discussion by a small group of students under direction of a faculty member. (P/NP grades only.) Prerequisites: consent of instructor.


ECE 199. Independent Study for Undergraduates (2 or 4)

Independent reading or research by special arrangement with a faculty member. (P/NP grades only.) Prerequisites: consent of instructor.